Feature Engineering is the process of using domain knowledge to extract features from raw data. 
These features can be used to improve the performance of machine learning algorithms.


when you were given raw data you extract important features from it so that you can feed that data to machine or model this process is known as feature enginerring .

Machine leaning life cycle diagram


feature 

-Feature Engineering four componenets : 

  1. Feature Transformation -- changing into form which has good perfromance . (suppose you have some columns or features you will transform it into the form where it can perform better)
  
     1. Missing Values Imputation -- remove or fill   missing values (with mean,median) (skit learn library doesnt accept missing values so we have to either fill it or remove it from data it is known as imputation and have various techniques ).
    
     2. Handling Categorial Value -- converting / transforming one value into othore (e.g String to numeric). skit learn library doesnt support categorial values thats why we use one hot encoding and others to transform them)
     
     3. Outlier Detection -- some algorithms are really affected by outliers , so for this we will use outlier detection techniques.
     
     4. Feature Scaling  -- Bring all features into one range(suppose we have a dataset where we have age and salary as features , so we will be calculating equivalent distance will be very high so we need to scale them before givving it to model).
     
     
  2. Feature Construction - -create a completely new columns ,based on intution,experiance , grouping  and feeature splitting are techniques and other you do with your duty).
  
  
  3. Feature Selection -- we have many input columns but we are selecting some inputs (extracting importance feature )
     
     MNIST dataset - 28*28 resolution -784 pixel 
    
  4. Feature Extraction -- from given feature creating new feature -pca 
    example room, washroom, price remove one column-- sqft area,price
  
  
