Unsupervised technique
Old feature extraction 

Main goal :
reduce curse of dimensionality 

Analogy :
photographer taking photo of 3d stadium in 2d frame 

pca tries to bring high dimensional data into low dimension while keeping ascence of data .

BENIFITS / REASON TO USE PCA

1. Faster execution of algo ( High dim --> low dim ,size reduce, algo run faster ,save computation)
2. Visualization -- reducing n dim ---> 2/3 dim


Geometric Intution 


3 columns
no of rooms , price of room, no of grocery shop nearby(week parameter)

How feature selection work ?
if you have 5 col ,we will took only imp features to predict output.

if you have no domain knowdlege then how to select columns .

plot 
xm -- number of rooms
y  -- no of grocery

if no direct relation. then  select shadow of which feature on axis is more.
select feature with more variance.


lets say changes in data 
no of rooms ,no of washrooms,price
price govern by both .
feature selection is not imp. maths proff --  linear relationship ,projection on x axis ,spread of data on x and y are almost comparable
variance same

Feature Extraction solve above problem 

we can do -- create single columns using input columns
size of flat and price 

As a datascientist , how to do when you dont have domain knowledge then
graph is linear , variance same
pca find new set of axis ,by rotating 
now check variance on both axis d and d` and we see that d>d`, so will keep d 
you will get priciple component pc1 and pc2 vqariance on pc1>pc2 
now transform pc
no of pc <=number of original feature of data.

mean=0 of (-5,5)
                            central tendency 
mean=0 of (-10,10)

difference between two data set
variance is propotional to spread,not exqactly spread 

variance =(Xi-Xmean)^2/n

mean absolute deviation also define spread but 
mod is not differential to 0 ,whereas 
square is differential thats why we use variance .

Variance tell us about spread about data.
Why Variance is Important ?



project all point on axis , calculate variance it will tell spread.





